# My Proposal
For my final project I have decided I want to create a face detection program that allows the user to place a filter (sort of like Snapchat) on their face. The program will most likely implement both code to access the computers webcam, along with facial detection in order to place the image of what I choose to make as the filter on the user's face. I intend to make it so that the user can pass in whatever image they want and it will be made into a sort of mustache like object that sits on top of their upper lip.
While developing the project, I have decided I want to implement the dlib library for facial feature detection, and the AVfoundation framework in order to capture audiovisual media from a webcam. The dlib library contains many useful elements that I can use, such as get_frontal_face_detector (this returns a detector determining whether a human face is more or less looking towards the camera), and jitter_image (increases accuracy of face detection by slightly rotating, scaling and translating it). AVfoundation framework also has many helpful functionalities within it. For instance, I can use the AVCaptureDevice and AVCaptureSession function to both access and open the webcam on my computer. There's also built in methods that can start and save recordings, a feature that I might implement if the user wants to save a video of them with the face filter placed on them.
I'm still unsure about the difficulty of this project, since I have not had any experience in developing media/ facial detection software. However, since facial detection is very prevelant in today's technology (like Apple's FaceID and snapchat), I expect for there to be a plethora of resources and tutorials to help guide me in the right direction to achieve the program that I intend to make. Worst case scenario however, I'm also very interested in sound detection and implementation software. If I do not succeed in creating my original idea, I have decided that my back up final project will be creating a soundboard/beat detection software. I have seen beat detecting libraries in the add-ons for openFrameworks, as well as heard of libraries that translate keyboard typing to sounds (oFSoundPlayer). These are what I plan to use in case I do not successfully implement the project that I had originally intended to do.

